# Double-circuit-transmission-line-parameters
A MATLAB program to calculate the parameters(inductance and capacitance) for two different arrangements of a double circuit 3 phase transmission line.

Transmission lines that are set up for transferring very high power are usually designed as double-circuit three-phase overhead lines with earth wires. A single circuit transmission line has three sets of conductors, while a double circuit transmission line has two independent circuits on the same structure with each circuit made up of three sets of conductors. Due to the proximity of both circuits, their mutual effects have to be considered. To reduce the mutual interference, the overhead lines are usually transposed. Double circuit transmission lines usually contain bundled conductors with the conductors placed as far as possible to minimize inductance. Besides positive effects on the impedance of the line, the optimized arrangement of the conductors can reduce the electric and magnetic field strengths in their vicinity and thus can cast a better impact on the environment. . In fact numerous multi-circuit lines are already in use. The conductors of circuits are arranged in different configuration depending on the tower types used.

The following MATLAB program is prepared and written under the course Power Generation, Transmission & Distribution. The code has two major limitation. It is applicable only for double bundled conductor & the conductor type and property is restricted currently to one (not user defined). But I encourage others to try and improve this code on their own and equip it with necessary functions.
